When you are practicing or when practicing, practicing of the Pandya Paramata, how are we advancing
? How are we developing?
This is like a marked sign road. If we are going to do the New York City or the Washington DC,
we have the map and indicated where you arrived, where you are now, where you are now.
And so, that is really the indication that this is known as the hidden meaning of the Pandya Param
ata.
Openly here, Buddha did not explain those Five Paths here when he told them. Openly did.
But this is the hidden meaning of the Pandya Paramata. And that's why, for example, you heard that
the Pandya Paramata has two meanings.
The profound meaning, vastness meaning. V-A-S-T. Vastness meaning.
The profound meaning of the Pandya Paramata is profound, it is a great emptiness, great nature.
That nature of the Pandya Paramata is directly of the meaning of the Pandya Paramata is profound.
That meaning is very much clarified, highlighted by the great Master Nagarjuna.
Nagarjuna becomes the most famous Master who expounded the meaning of the Pandya Paramata, more
highlighted.
And that is then the essence of the Pandya Paramata teaching is the Madhyamaka.
Madhyamaka, middle meaning. Middle meaning means not pulling any extremes.
We sent in beings, we live in beings, or we mean beings are always tendency and we do, always to
the extremes.
Whatever it is, we hardly stay balanced. It is our ego tricks.
Ego itself is unbalanced because it is grasping, clinging.
And then from there, then we don't really balance it.
We are always in extremes, very extremes.
And then those old words people use here, what is called? Supremacy? White supremacy.
Well, those whites, I shouldn't say that white.
And I shouldn't say any color.
And supremacy? What?
Supremacy, what is it? Or they are very racist, racist, racist.
All those are extreme. I mean, these old things are extreme.
This is just the tip of the iceberg of the extreme attitude we have.
We have so many extremes.
Because of that extreme, we created so many troubles to the others.
And then, mostly, it is burden to our own self. We create.
So we really don't go always in the middle.
Middle remains completely balanced.
Not any extremes. Neither side. Right side or left side. You are in the center.
For example, in the teaching, you say, when you ride the horse,
unless you are like gymnast through those horse legs, but when you ride the horse,
you shouldn't leave right side or left side, stay on the horse.
And then it will be smooth. Smooth, that's just examples.
So, now you know, this board up, this great,
this exactly direct meaning of the Pandya Paravata,
and known as Madhyavaka teachings.
And then, hidden meaning of the Pandya Paravata teachings,
who described by the great master, Ashenda.
Ashenda is very famous. Many of you know already.
He is one of the great masters of India.
And he was so, in the teaching, he said, I mean, you know,
he was so curious to see the meaning of this, behind meaning.
If you do this meditation practice, what are you going to really achieve?
What are you going to see? What are you going to have some,
that tangible we can experience in a way,
external or in our mental state also?
What are we going to see?
So, if you want to mini-grade, masters ask one after another,
and there's nothing really answered here that satisfies.
And everyone says, if you like to know the ultimate meaning,
you have to practice it.
Maitriya, Maitriya, the future mother. Maitriya, practice Maitriya.
And he received the instruction in teaching in empowerment,
and then he practiced Maitriya.
And finally, he was able to meet or see the Maitriya,
and Maitriya gave the teachings of the hidden meaning of the Pandya Paravata.
And the hidden meaning of the Pandya Paravata, what is it?
Then, these five parts, ten bhoomis, all the qualities of the...
When you practice the Meridim, your practice is going right, beautiful directions.
Really, there's so many realizations or richness that are coming out,
one after another.
One after another, so many richness of our inner quality, of the beauty.
Those are doki teaching, what is known as,
subcontinent, inherited richness of the nature of the ruka.
This now, everything is in ruka, in a doki level.
Everything is all underneath of the dualities.
It's completely covered.
But when you begin to practice this,
when as much as you lighten up your duality cover-up of Harvekehudr,
that much you're revealing the trails, one after another.
Those principle trails of the ruka or the nature,
by practicing Pandya Paravata, what is, loving-kindness, compassion,
versatile, shining, that is the principle.
To combination of those, so many beauties,
so many goods, joy, devotion, calm, peaceful, realization,
and really, just every lash of all the beauty scholars from the mind,
this arising and reflecting, coming out, coming, and not just with that.
Then, as we talk, then you begin to discover the five-part point,
exactly as it is yourself, not just the imagination,
thinking of the intellectual.
You begin to discover the five-part point, what we discuss.
Exactly that. And then all the sub-bokaya disciplines.
So those are known as, to just advance it, those are known as five-part,
and then ten-bomins. And that allows all that connected.
Five-part and ten-bomins are not externally located objects.
All is measured to our inner development of the meditation or the practices.
So it's not outside. We're not talking any day about five-part or ten-bomins.
It's all, and what is also in the teaching set?
Part-bomins, realizations are synonyms. Part-bomins, realizations are synonyms.
You got the realization, then you are achieving those different spheres.
And that is started from the minimums.
Because the growth of the realization, it starts from the minimums.
From minimum to the middle and then to the ultimate maximums.
That is how the realization grows from small to wide, as wide and wide.
So everything that realization is, is the greatest teacher, brother chapter many,
all explained, so detailed.
And those are then known as highlight, again, group, group of those, five-part, ten-bomins.
Each of those has so many details, details.
And each of those, also when you are advancing, not always easy advancing.
There is challenges. There is difficulties.
Those are known as four-demons. Those are also highlight of it.
But there is also division of those five-part-demons.
These four-demons are not externally existing, again, demons.
This time, this four-demons are all connected with ego clinging and grasping.
Grasping, clinging.
When we are moving forward from the ego clinging,
due to the happy dependence, there is not many times kind of clashes in the way.
Clashes, interference, one's own ego clinging,
one's own measurable structure, become the obstacle to our own advancing, advancing.
So this means, external is nothing coming in the way.
Maybe it could explain some conditions, external, reality, all is happening,
happening and performing by the mind. We are advancing.
So therefore, again, that is the general kind of ideas of the five parts.
So let me again, this is--